The Joe Rogan experience.
And what is going on with eating.
So if you have one meal and say this meal comprises, um,
you know, 2000 calories or whatever,
and you have this meal at 6:00 PM and you fast for 24 hours until you eat again
at 6:00 PM. If you have this one meal a day,
why is it better do that then to have say, you know,
smaller meals of like 500 calories,
multiple times per day, little snacks?
Well, because going back 6 million years back, you know, were in the trees.
And then in this Savannah, our bodies were designed well or evolved to,
to adversity. And we've removed that from our lives because it feels good,
but we need adversity to be resilient and to fight disease.
So what I'm saying is that period of hunger,
and it's not even hunger these days, I don't even feel it. I feel great if,
if I don't eat and it, it takes a few weeks. So anyone wants to start,
give it some time, give it a couple,
but what's happening in the body is you're turning on these adversity,
hormesis response genes.
We call 'em longevity genes and they make the body fight aging and diseases.
And so by, by eating through the day, the traditional, oh,
you gotta have breakfast best meal of the day, blah, blah, blah. Um,
first of all,
it's not true that you need to be full or fed to think clearly,
it's, it's very clear that people who are fasting have as good,
if not better at mental a acuity. Okay. That's one.
So I think that that needs to be throughout the window. Kids are different.
We're not talking about kids talking about adults and we're not talking about
malnutrition starvation too. Let's be clear,
but we are talking about lengthening that window of not eating.
So if you always are, are associated fed, your body says, Hey,
I've just killed an, you know, a mammoth, no problem.
Don't need to worry about survival.
I'm just gonna go forth and multiply and screw my long term survival. Mm.
So this's all about long term survival by making the body freak out that there's
tough times and that's running away, like running away from a cat,
like the Savannah and being hungry, or, you know,
there's molecular reasons that all this works, but, you know,
trust me that the data is very clear that this is the way to go.
If you want to be healthy in your eighties and nineties.
Well, it, it actually does make sense when you put it in that way,
that your body, when your fed relaxes.
And so if you're just doing that all day long,
and I know for a fact that when I am, um,
not fed and I go and do things, whether it's perform,
one of the things that I've been doing, um,
is I don't eat before shows.
Like I take many, uh, many hours before a comedy show.
And I used to just like eat whenever I just eat. And,
and then I would do shows and I would have a meal like an hour before the show.
And I like trying to wake up. I'm really trying to come on, come on, come on.
But I've now recognized,
actually I saw a video where cat Williams was talking about this. Do you know,
KA Williams is hilarious, comedian.
Uh, I do.
Know. Well, you're slipping if you don't. Uh, he's, he's hilarious.
When he was doing this interview and he was saying, they were,
what's your process before a show. And one of the things he says, I don't eat,
I make sure I don't eat. And I was like, that's wise, that's really smart.
And I'm like, I needed to hear that know. I kind of knew it,
but I never written it down. I never like associated it. Absolutely.
But now I have, like, now I do not eat before shows.
I won't do it unless I know I have three hours.
So what, what's your average day.
Look like? It depends entirely on whether or not I'm doing podcasts.
If I'm doing podcasts generally, I'm up early. I get my, my workouts in,
I, I usually have something to eat after the workout. So I'm talking about like,
I eat around 11, 11:00 AM. That's my first meal of the day. And then, uh,
I go and do my stuff.
And I generally feel like my workouts are so strenuous that I need some sort of
nutrition afterwards, some sort of, uh,
fruit to pump the muscles back up and give them some sugar and some
protein.
So usually I'm eating meat and maybe like an apple or something like that.
That's like a normal meal for me. And then I don't eat again until nighttime.
Great.
And you're not snacking?
No. Eh, maybe sometimes after a podcast, I'll have, like, we have these, uh,
on it warrior bars that are just Buffalo meat, some cranberries and stuff.
I like those I'll.
Eat one of those. Good. Well, at least you're going till 11. You got that sleep.
Yeah. So you're probably not eating late. Yeah. It's just.
The STR strenuous activity. Me.
Like my workouts are very hard. So after them, I feel like I need something.
You know, I just,
I don't like that feeling of like a brutal workout and then being starving for
four or five hours, because then it becomes a distraction. So I, I,
I listen to my body, but if I don't work out, I don't eat until dinner.
Like say a day like today I didn't work out today. So I woke up,
hung out with a dog, had some coffee, sat out, you know, like just got,
went over. Some emails, did some,
just a relaxed morning and then rolled into here. No food. Perfect. I won,
I won't eat until we're going to dinner tonight. I won't eat until then. Yeah.
Relax. That'll be fun. Yes. That's gonna be fun. And John Donna her.
Yeah, of course. Looking forward to meeting. Yes. Uh, yeah,
so you you're doing the right things. Um, certainly better than most people. Uh,
but what I'm trying to build a make are molecules that mimic fasting as well.
So if you cannot fast, like I do, then you can just take a pill.
And what we've shown in, in my,
at least is that if you give them this molecule that I'm taking NN nicotinamide,
mono nucleotide, which as I mentioned, um,
speeds up metabolisms and all that stuff. Those mice could run on 50% further.
These old mice, we gave it to them for three weeks,
put them back on a treadmill.
And those that had the men in their water ran 50% further.
They had better blood flow, better oxygenation, better energy.
And that is literally exercise in a pill. That's crazy.
So we're, we're in late stage human clinical trials. Now.
When do you think there's gonna be released to the public?
Well, it depends on what the FDA does and if it was, oh,
don't get me in trouble. <laugh> love the FDA. Um,
but it's fair enough. They protect us. But yeah,
we we're going through the procedure, Jo that has been around since,
as I mentioned, early 20th century,
but it we've done hundreds of people now. Um,
certainly dozens over the last few years.
And we know at least that this molecule is apparently safe and raises the levels
of the molecule. We wanna build up the molecules called N a D.
Do you wanna talk a little bit? Yes, please. So a D is what MIT,
those mitochondria little, uh, mic and I little, uh, uh,
energy producing things use to make
energy. So you, you need,
there are two molecules in the body that are really great.
You need both for life. And without them, as I said, you're dead.
ATP is the energy. And ad makes that, and as we get older,
the levels of a down our body makes less and actually also degrades it more.
You have. So I,
if you take my skin or in the study that they took people's skin,
when you're 50, you've got half the levels of this N a D that you did,
then you did when you were 20, which is scary, cuz this is,
this molecule is required for life without it we're dead in 30 seconds.
So what we're doing with our clinical trials is giving a pre so a, a,
a smaller version of this that the body will turn into a D and bring those
levels back up from where they are when you're old to where you are,
when you're young. And we,
we see at least in animals and hopefully in people that it revs up their
metabolism and makes them fight aging and disease like we do when we're young.
I mean, there's a reason we don't get a lot of heart disease when we're young or
Alzheimer's cause our bodies fight against disease as we get older.
And especially if we sit around or smoke and don't exercise our bodies,
just give up.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.